New site preview (#75)
common-workflow-language/cwl-website: content/implementations.md

---
layout: page
permalink: /implementations/
title: Implementations
---

## What can execute CWL descriptions?
CWL provides a
solution to describing portable, re-usable workflows while also
being workflow-engine and vendor-neutral.
CWL has gained much traction and is currently widely
supported in practice. In addition to the Free and Open Source implementations, certain platforms/engines have in-development or partial support for CWL as well.  

Some workflow users require the maintenance and risk-mitigation
guarantees offered by commercial operations. There are multiple
commercially supported systems that support CWL for executing
workflows and they are available from vendors such as Curii

> ([Arvados](https://arvados.org/)), [DNAnexus](https://www.dnanexus.com/, [IBM (IBM® Spectrum LSF)](https://www.ibm.com/analytics/spectrum-computing), [Illumina

Reviewer: ```suggestion
([Arvados](https://arvados.org/)), [DNAnexus](https://www.dnanexus.com/), [IBM (IBM® Spectrum LSF)](https://www.ibm.com/analytics/spectrum-computing), [Illumina
```

(Illumina Connected Analytics)](https://www.illumina.com/products/by-type/informatics-products/connected-analytics.html?scid=2021-269ECL4851), and [Seven Bridges Genomics](https://www.sevenbridges.com/).

> Wide adoption benefits from our principles: CWL offers 
> conformance tests, but the CWL community does not yet test or certify

Author: ```suggestion
Wide adoption benefits from our principles: each release of the CWL standards includes normative 
[conformance tests](https://github.com/common-workflow-language/common-workflow-language/blob/main/CONFORMANCE_TESTS.md), but the CWL project itself does not yet test or certify
```
